---
layout: post
title: "Array Coding Interview Questions"
published: true
date: 2019-11-4 18:00:00
image: '/assets/img/'
description: '1. Array Coding Interview Questions'
tags:  
- Data Structures
- Array
- Coding
- Pyhton
categories:
- Data Structures
- Array
twitter_text: 'Array Coding Interview Questions'
---

An array is the most fundamental data structure, which stores elements at contiguous memory location. 

The key to solving array-based questions is having a good knowledge of array data structure (arrays, linked lists, hash table(dictionary), stack, queue and set), as well as basic programming constructors such as loop, recursion, and fundamental operators.

Here are some of the popular array-based coding interview questions to practice with Python:

#### 1. How do you find the missing number in a given integer array of 1 to 100?

Given a list of n-1 integers and these integers are in the range of 1 to 100

| Things to consider   |
| ------------- |
| The array doesn't contain more than one missing number      | 
| The array doesn't contain duplicates      | 
| Consider we have stored our numbers in arr[ ]   | 


| Method: Sum formula (Sum of numbers from 1 to n)  |
| ------------- |
| 1. Get the sum of numbers which is total = n*(n+1)/2   | 
| 2. Subtract all the numbers from sum and you will get the missing number (sum=sum-arr[i])  | 
  
 * Time Complexity : O(n)
 
 * Space Complexity : O(1)

  If there is an array from of size n ans elements are from 1 to n without repetetions,
  the sum of the elements of the array should be : (n * (n+1) )/2

  Now if one number ,say x is removed ,
  then the sum of the elements in the new array will be : (n*(n+1))/2 - x

  so the absent element = Original sum - new sum

  So find the new sum , by summing all the elements in the array and subract it from

  (n*(n+1))/2 to get the value of the absent number.    

```python
def find_missing_number(list_num):
	n = len(list_num)
	orig_sum = (n*(n+1))>>1
	new_sum = sum(list_num)
	missing_number = (orig_sum-new_sum)
	return missing_number
  ``` 


#### 2. How do you find the duplicate number on a given integer array?

Given a large array of N values and that one of them occurs twice, find this duplicate value and return it.

| Things to consider   |
| ------------- |
| Input is an array of N values and N is unknown at this time      | 
| All values are integers      | 
| Output is the value of a single duplicate array  | 


| Method:  There are multiple solutions to finding duplicates   |
| ------------- |
| 1. Use of a hash table   | 
| 2. Use of a sort function   | 
| 3. Use of brute force   | 

#### 2.1. Hash table

Use a hash-table that marks up items already visited. The basic logic for this is that for each item in the list, if it is already in the hash-table, we've found a duplicate, otherwise we set the item in the hash-table to some value.

* Time Complexity : O(n) to traverse through all values
 
* Space Complexity : O(n) to save all possible values in the hash table

Hashing is a technique that is used to uniquely identify a specific object from a group of similar objects.

In hashing, large keys are converted into small keys by using hash functions. The values are then stored in a data structure called hash table. The idea of hashing is to distribute entries (key/value pairs) uniformly across an array. Each element is assigned a key (converted key). By using that key you can access the element in O(1) time. Using the key, the algorithm (hash function) computes an index that suggests where an entry can be found or inserted.

Hashing is implemented in two steps:

1. An element is converted into an integer by using a hash function. This element can be used as an index to store the original element, which falls into the hash table.
2. The element is stored in the hash table where it can be quickly retrieved using hashed key.

hash = hashfunc(key)

index = hash % array_size

In this method, the hash is independent of the array size and it is then reduced to an index (a number between 0 and array_size − 1) by using the modulo operator (%).

Hash function
A hash function is any function that can be used to map a data set of an arbitrary size to a data set of a fixed size, which falls into the hash table. The values returned by a hash function are called hash values, hash codes, hash sums, or simply hashes.

```python
def find_duplicate_hash(A):
    d = {}
    for index, item in enumerate(A):
        if d.has_key(item):
            return item
        else:
            d[item] = True
```

```python
def find_duplicates(list)
hash_table <- HashTable()
duplicates <- List()
for value in list:
    if value in hash_table:
        duplicates.add(value)
    else:
        hash_table.add(value, true)
```

#### 2.2. Sort function

Sort the array and traverse neighbour values.

* Time Complexity: O(n.logn) + O(n) = O(n.logn) to sort and traverse all values
* Space Complexity: O(1) as no extra space created to produce duplicates

Comparing this function with the hash-table approach:

If we are allowed to sort the input array in-place, then this solution gives us O(1) space with O(N log N) time complexity, which is good enough for most reasonable input values of N, and certainly better than brute-force approach, but it destroys the original sequence order.

However, if we are not allowed to sort the array, then this solution isn't advisable: it is slower than the hash-table approach, and will use the same amount of memory.

```python
def find_duplicate_sorted(A):
    for index, item in enumerate(sorted(A)):
        if index == 0:
            prev = item
            
        elif prev == item:
            return item
            
        else:
            prev = item
```   
	
```python
def find_duplicates(list)
list.sort()
duplicates <- Set()
for i <- [1, len(list)-1]:
    if list[i] = list[i-1]:
        duplicates.add(list[i])
``` 


#### 2.3. Brute force
